# Tipe_my_tadpoles
This project is made for my internship

Hello and welcome to my first ever web app.

TLDR: I faced a lot of challenges in making this project, because I have never done something like this before, but I overcame them and made it anyways. It’s basic and unpolished but I am still proud of my baby.

First, as I said above, I have never made anything close to a web app or animation, so since I had no experience, I thought I might as well do it in TypeScript. My first challenge was to learn TypeScript’s basics, I done it by doing a lot of Googling and watching lots and lots of YouTube videos. After three days of learning I stumbled upon a video explaining how to make games using TypeScript. With this video I made my first prototype where I made bunch of circles that would have random starting velocities and would get other random velocities then they would reach the canvas border. It looked great but then I stared implementing collisions with the other circles, it looked terrible. After this disaster, I understood that I will need to redo my code entirely. I did some research again and found out that simulating gravity would do the trick, because I would need to add a minus to the gravitational formula to simulate repulsion. After finding this out I just needed to find a video explaining it. After finding it I made a prototype that would simulate gravity at the center of the canvas. Then I made it to simulate repulsion, then I added repulsion to the canvas borders and other circles. It looked good at first, but because of lack of friction (or other things that I am not sure about) my circles would speed up so much that they would jump out of canvas. It was amusing to watch, but it didn’t really simulate social distancing (maybe at extreme measures it did). So, I added a little bit of code that would limit the peak velocity and it worked great. The last thing on my list was the mouse repulsion I didn’t had any problems with it, I just need to add mouse coordinates. After this my code was sort of finished, but then I wanted to lower the amount of calculation my program made. The prime contender for this were repulsion calculations, because two distant circles repellant force was close to 0 so why do calculations on it. I made a specific effect radius where they would continue making calculations, it made a slight difference in app's speed. While debugging I made that the circles would turn red when they are in the mouse effect radius, it looked nice, so I left it in. The last thing I made was simple GUI for changing the specific values so it would be easier to play around with the simulation.

I had put a lot of time in it, like more then 4 hours a day, and I worked for 8 days or so, but ill be honest, more than 80%  of that time was spent on watching YouTube, googling and looking through the window and enjoying the spring view. I am sure that if I would have a mentor or more experience with JavaScript or TypeScript, I would have made it much faster.

In the end, I had a blast while I was making this web app. I know that it could look better, but I am damn proud of it 😊.
